---
id: 74
title: 'So much to see!'
date: '2008-12-04T20:20:00+00:00'
author: Frank
layout: post
guid: 'https://34.95.34.211/?p=74'
permalink: /2008/12/04/so-much-to-see-html/
categories:
    - Entertainment
    - 'Geek Culture'
    - Internet
    - Movies
    - Technology
    - TV
---

With the fall semester drawing to a close and the only two shows I watch regularly (*Smallville* and *Heroes*) going on hiatus, I’m going to be missing my regularly-scheduled entertainment fix over the Christmas break. I’ve been hearing a lot about Joss Whedon’s ill-fated *Firefly* series and its acompanying film *Serenity*. Friends have told me I need to see it, but I lacked the interest and – more importantly – the time required to watch it. That’s where the internet steps in. *Dr. Horrible’s Sing-Along Blog* formally introduced me to the mind of Joss Whedon. After enjoying that as much as I did I decided I’d add *Firefly* and *Serenity* to my mental “To Be Watched” list. Then Aaron and Will over at the [Axed](http://www.axedpodcast.com/) podcast did an entire episode on *Firefly/Serenity* this week. Also, as most of you know, I’ve been addicted to [Twitter](http://www.twitter.com/) for over a month now. It’s an amazing site that you need to check out if you haven’t already. I’ve been talking to lots of very cool people there. Late last week, I started talking to the hosts of the [Chic Geek Podcast](http://chicgeekpodcast.blogspot.com/). I listened to all of their episodes in a matter of three days and enjoyed them immensely. Faith and Ky are really funny and made me genuinely interested in checking out a few things I’ve been holding off on. I think I’m going to do a full review of their show as part of my all-but-abandoned “Podcastin’ ” ongoing blog post series, so be on the lookout for that. Aside from giving me the final push towards watching *Firefly/Serenity*, the Chic Geek girls have convinced me to look into *Buffy the Vampire Slayer*, its popular spin-off *Angel*, and *Terminator: The Sarah Connor Chronicles* (T:SCC), which is supposed to be the best show on television right now, according to Faith, as well as Steve and Derek of [SHoE](http://smallvillepodcast.com/) (who also run a Sarah Connor Chronicles podcast called [SkyNext](http://www.skynextpodcast.com/)). So I’ll be keeping quite busy over this break. Of course I hope to be working; in fact I need to remember to call my place of summer employ tomorrow to make sure they still need me over Christmas. However, if that goes through, I usually work early in the day, from 7am-3pm. That leaves plenty of time each day for catching up on good TV. Of course to watch T:SCC, I need to see the Terminator films, which I’m ashamed to say I’ve never seen. I know. Go on, ostracize me. But before you do, know that I watched *The Terminator* mere moments before writing this post and LOVED it. I’m going to get started on *Terminator 2* in just a few minutes. *Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines* isn’t directly related to T:SCC, so I’ll probably put off watching that until after I’m all caught up with everything else. I’ve only got a month of freedom to watch 7+ years’ worth of TV and movies, so I don’t want to waste my time.

Here’s the order in which I plan to watch all this stuff. If you have any suggestions for how I might amend it, feel free to comment.

- *Terminator* — DONE
- *Terminator 2* — DONE
- *Terminator: The Sarah Connor Chronicles* — SEASON 1 DONE, S2 IN PROGRESS
- *Firefly*
- *Serenity*
- *Buffy the Vampire Slayer*
- *Angel*

NOTE: Edited to reflect the completion of items on the To-Watch list.